Study of Assignment Problem and it’s Applica-
tion.

Introduction

Introuction to proposed research topic:-
Assignment problem is degenerated form of transportation problem. Assign-
ment problem,transportation problem are type of linear programming problem.
Problems related to assignment have many applications such as transporta-
tion,healthcare,education,seating arrangement,business,sports etc. Assignment
problem deals with allocation of varies resources to varies activityes on one to
one correspondence. Assignment problem have two types

1. Balanced Assignment Problem :- n objects are related to n objects.
2. Unbalanced Assignment Problem:- n objects are related to m objects.

Definition and Mathematical Formulation of gen-
eral assignment problem :

The general aim of Assignment problem is to optimize the allocation of resources
to demand points where both resources and demand point share equal number.
Therefore assignment problem can be presented as :

Optimize∑n

i=1
∑n
j=1 cij xij < re. . . . . . ..(1)
Subject to∑n
i=1 xij = 1 i=1,2,3. . . ,n . . . . . . (2)
∑n
i=1 xij =1 j=1,2,3. . . n . . . . . . (3)

xij = 0or1, i = 1, 2, . . . nj = 1, 2. . . n. . . . . . ... . . (4)

which are is the cost or efectiveness of assignment resource to demand, is
0 or 1 as presented in equation (4) and n is number of resources or demands.
The constraints of problem are defined as equation (2) and (3). Equation (2)
indicates that each resource i needs to be assigned to one demand j, while(3)
show that each demand j needs to be assigned to only one resource i.[2]
Solution method :-

The assignment problem can be solved by the following four methods :

1. Enumeration Method
2. Simplex Method
3. Trasportation Method
4. Hungarian Method

Now a days mathematicians found new techniques to solve assignment problem
which are as follows :

*Heuristics algorithm
1. Constructed method
2. Limited enumeration method
3. Improvement method
4. Simulated annealing technique
5. Genetic algorithms

*Metaheuristic algorithm :-
1. Local search algorithm
2. Population search algorithm

*Hybrid Method

*Exact Method
1. Dynamic Programming
2. Integer Programming
3. Linear Programming

*Branch and Bound Method
Heuristic and metaheuristic algorithms are used when problem be-
comes too large for exact method. Exact method is complicated than
heuristic method. Exact method give solution of large scale problem
instances in manageable times
